README.md, before:

# jodal

jodal is het JOurnalistiek DAshboard Lokaal.


## Get started

1. `# clone the repo and chdir to there`
2. `cd backend && cp config.py.example config.py && cp config.yaml.example config.yaml`
3. `# Edit config.py and config.yaml accordingly to what you want`
2. `cd ../docker`
3. `docker-compose  up -d`
4. `cd ..`
5. `./setup.sh`
6. `docker exec -it jodal_backend_1 ./manage.py scrapers locations`

In development mode you can run `./bin/dev.sh` from the base directory, which will launch
the development environment.

To access the local development environment, add the following in `/etc/hosts`:

```
127.0.0.1	api.jodal.nl users.jodal.nl www.jodal.nl app.jodal.nl
```

Then you can go to `http://app.jodal.nl` preferably in a private window, because of HSTS parameters on the live setup.

## Installing FusionAuth

1. Go to `http://localhost:9011/`
2. Make an admin account
3. Complete the steps on the main DAshboard
  1. Make an application (for example 'jodal')
    1. Login ap config:
      - Require an API key: 	Yes
      - Generate Refresh Tokens: 	No
      - Enable JWT refresh: 	No
      - Passwordless: yes
    2. Authentication tokens: no
    3. JWT Enabled: Yes
    4. Self serice registration:
       - Enabled: Yes
       - Require password confirmation: Yes
       - Fields:
    5. OAuth config:
      - Require authentication: 	Yes
      - Generate Refresh Tokens: 	Yes
      - Logout URL: 	https://app.jodal.nl/
      - Logout behavior: 	All applications
      - Authorized origins: 	–
       Authorized redirects: 	https://api.jodal.nl/users/simple/callback, http://localhost:8080/api/2/sessions/callback, https://aleph.openstate.eu/api/2/sessions/callback
      - Enabled grants: 	Authorization Code, Refresh Token
    6. SAML:
      - Enabled: 	No
    7. Roles:
  2. Generate an api key for use with the jodal application
  3. Settings
   1. Cors: Enabled
  4. copy the client id and secret from the application to `backend/config.py`
  5. copy the api key to `backend/config.py`
  6. restart backend and api container
# deployment

Open Overheidsdata uses Fabric for deployment. Run `fab deploy`.

# migrations

Open Overheidsdata uses [alembic](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/index.html) for migrations

## migrate all up to the latest

`docker exec jodal_backend_1 alembic upgrade head`

## rollback

`docker exec jodal_backend_1 alembic downgrade -1`

## create a migration

`docker exec jodal_backend_1 alembic revision -m "create account table"`

# adding data

Open Overheidsdata runs several scrapers, in the `jodal_backend_1` container. Run the floowing steps to get started:

1. `docker exec jodal_backend_1 ./mana ge.py scrapers locations`
2. `docker exec jodal_backend_1 ./mana ge.py scrapers openspending -f 2021-01-01`
3. `docker exec jodal_backend_1 ./mana ge.py scrapers poliflw -f 2021-01-01`
4. `docker exec jodal_backend_1 ./mana ge.py scrapers obv -f 2021-01-01`

# contact

Send an email to breyten@openstate.eu

Commit message:

Add clarification for restarting fusionauth in some cases

README.md, after:

# jodal

jodal is het JOurnalistiek DAshboard Lokaal.


## Get started

1. `# clone the repo and chdir to there`
2. `cd backend && cp config.py.example config.py && cp config.yaml.example config.yaml`
3. `# Edit config.py and config.yaml accordingly to what you want`
2. `cd ../docker`
3. `docker-compose  up -d`
4. `cd ..`
5. `./setup.sh`
6. `docker exec -it jodal_backend_1 ./manage.py scrapers locations`

In development mode you can run `./bin/dev.sh` from the base directory, which will launch
the development environment.

To access the local development environment, add the following in `/etc/hosts`:

```
127.0.0.1	api.jodal.nl users.jodal.nl www.jodal.nl app.jodal.nl
```

Then you can go to `http://app.jodal.nl` preferably in a private window, because of HSTS parameters on the live setup.

## Installing FusionAuth

If you  get an error about maintenance mode failed, it means that fusionauth could not properbly connect to the mysql server. Simply restart the fusionauth container and you should be fine.

1. Go to `http://localhost:9011/`
2. Make an admin account
3. Complete the steps on the main DAshboard
  1. Make an application (for example 'jodal')
    1. Login ap config:
      - Require an API key: 	Yes
      - Generate Refresh Tokens: 	No
      - Enable JWT refresh: 	No
      - Passwordless: yes
    2. Authentication tokens: no
    3. JWT Enabled: Yes
    4. Self serice registration:
       - Enabled: Yes
       - Require password confirmation: Yes
       - Fields:
    5. OAuth config:
      - Require authentication: 	Yes
      - Generate Refresh Tokens: 	Yes
      - Logout URL: 	https://app.jodal.nl/
      - Logout behavior: 	All applications
      - Authorized origins: 	–
       Authorized redirects: 	https://api.jodal.nl/users/simple/callback, http://localhost:8080/api/2/sessions/callback, https://aleph.openstate.eu/api/2/sessions/callback
      - Enabled grants: 	Authorization Code, Refresh Token
    6. SAML:
      - Enabled: 	No
    7. Roles:
  2. Generate an api key for use with the jodal application
  3. Settings
   1. Cors: Enabled
  4. copy the client id and secret from the application to `backend/config.py`
  5. copy the api key to `backend/config.py`
  6. restart backend and api container
# deployment

Open Overheidsdata uses Fabric for deployment. Run `fab deploy`.

# migrations

Open Overheidsdata uses [alembic](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/index.html) for migrations

## migrate all up to the latest

`docker exec jodal_backend_1 alembic upgrade head`

## rollback

`docker exec jodal_backend_1 alembic downgrade -1`

## create a migration

`docker exec jodal_backend_1 alembic revision -m "create account table"`

# adding data

Open Overheidsdata runs several scrapers, in the `jodal_backend_1` container. Run the floowing steps to get started:

1. `docker exec jodal_backend_1 ./mana ge.py scrapers locations`
2. `docker exec jodal_backend_1 ./mana ge.py scrapers openspending -f 2021-01-01`
3. `docker exec jodal_backend_1 ./mana ge.py scrapers poliflw -f 2021-01-01`
4. `docker exec jodal_backend_1 ./mana ge.py scrapers obv -f 2021-01-01`

# contact

Send an email to breyten@openstate.eu
